    In the present paper, we develop an accurate error estimate of the non-bonded short-range interaction for the inhomogeneous molecular systems. The root mean square force error is proved to be decomposed into three additive parts: the homogeneity error, the inhomogeneity error and the correlation error. The magnitude of the inhomogeneity error, which is dominant in the interfacial regions, can be more than one order of magnitude larger than the homogeneity error. This is the reason why a standard simulation with fixed  cut-off radius is either less accurate if the cut-off is too small, or wastes considerable computational effort if the cut-off is too large. Therefore, based on the error estimate, the adaptive cut-off and long-range force correction methods are proposed to boost the efficiency and accuracy of the simulation, respectively. The effectiveness of the proposed methods are demonstrated by molecular dynamics simulations of the liquid-vapor equilibrium and the nanoscale particle collision. Different roles of the homogeneity error and inhomogeneity error are also discussed.


    This work, for the first time, developed the accurate error estimate for the short-range force calculation in the inhomogeneous molecular system. Based on the error estimate, the adaptive cut-off and the force correction methods were proposed and demonstrated to boost the accuracy and efficiency of the simulation, respectively. This work is important for studying the inhomogeneous molecular systems, and for designing high performance molecular simulation softwares.


In the present paper, we develop an accurate error estimate of the non-bonded short-range interactions for the inhomogeneous molecular systems. The root mean square force error is proved to be decomposed into three additive parts: the homogeneity error, the inhomogeneity error and the correlation error. The magnitude of the inhomogeneity error, which is dominant in the interfacial regions,  can be more than one order of magnitude larger than the homogeneity error. This is the reason why a standard simulation with fixed cut-off radius is either less accurate if the cut-off is too small, or wastes considerable computational effort if the cut-off is too large. Therefore, based on the error estimate, the adaptive cut-off and long-range force correction methods are proposed to boost the efficiency and accuracy of the simulation, respectively. The way of correcting the long-range contribution of pressure is also developed for the inhomogeneous system. The effectiveness of the proposed methods are demonstrated by molecular dynamics simulations of the liquid-vapor equilibrium and the nanoscale particle collision. Different roles of the homogeneity error and inhomogeneity error are also discussed.
